---
permalink: /b/preprint/
layout: base
title: Into the Preprint-Verse
date: 2026-05-13
---

Preprints.org’s Sam Rye
[defines][preprints-org] a preprint as a
“draft or in-progress version of a scholarly article.”
That sounds like a really nice definition,
especially if coupled with the
traditional view of the academic publication flow.
Consider for example the
[Publishing Status Ontology][publishing-status-ontology].
Under [green open access][pso-green-open-access],
it seems to define a preprint as
“the version of the article as first submitted for publication.”
Note the _the_ article here,
referring apparently to the fact that
a preprint is _intended_ for
future publication in a peer-reviewed journal.

In my applied academic reality,
though,
I have been struggling to
understand whether the difference stands.
The issue is exacerbated by the fact that
if a researcher fancies
self-publishing something
virtually
in 2026,
multiple options fortuitously present themselves:

- A legit _preprint server._
ArXiv, medRxiv, ChemRxiv,
you name it.
These apparently are platforms that
_intend_ to host publications
_intended_ to be submitted for
publication in a peer-reviewed journal.
Or so reads the name.
- Various researcher-oriented data repositories,
including Zenodo, Dryad, or
the Open Science Framework (OSF).
These vary in terms of their inclusion criteria but
overall seem to operate under the policy of
“anything goes”
(unless thematically constrained)
or even offer
the researcher a variety of options to identify with
when they submit their document.
  - Within this category,
  one might observe a
  class of platforms called _registers._
  These seem to exist to _register_
  research documents
  in some particular, 
  register-specific sense.
  For example,
  my interpretation is that a research document
  published on Zenodo
  would not be considered “registered”
  due to the fact that
  Zenodo does not position itself as
  a register,
  despite the fact that
  metadata for all Zenodo registrations are
  nevertheless _registered_
  with [DataCite][datacite].
- Non-research-oriented repositories
might also be legitimately used.
For example,
GitHub, GitLab, or even
Google Drive have all been used
extensively to host
public research documents.
- Distributed hosting solutions are
also not off the table. These include the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS),
Arweave, BitTorrent, and
many other similar protocols and services.
- Not least,
the researcher may opt to
self-host their research document.
What that means varies
depending on whether they
self-host it on their own physical computer, on 
a rented host,
on the said distributed nodes,
and so on.

Ultimately,
it seems to me that the
distinction between these options
is often more societal
than it is technological.
For example,
publishing a document redundantly through
both a scientific data curator
(e.g., DataCite) and through
the IPFS makes a lot of sense provenance-wise
because while the first avenue offers a trusted
timestamping authority, the
second avenue offers a strong
cryptographic fingerprint of the data
while also enabling self-maintenance.
At the same time,
publishing a protocol through Zenodo while
also _registering_ the same document
with the OSF would
probably be more of a
political consideration because
technologically,
both platforms will register their data through DataCite,
but one is U.S. and the other
E.U. based, and
they also have different
external data preservation arrangements;
while on the other hand,
one or the other could be
more or less familiar
within a particular scholarly community.

This concludes my journey
into the preprint-verse,
for now.
I hope that next time,
I will surely select the right
distribution channel for
the right [publishing status][pso-publication-status].
The traditional,
paper-based academic publishing
has been there for hundreds of years, and
as still-pioneers of the digital
it’s important that we get this right.

The Start \| The End

----

_Written by Pavel Zhelnov on May 19, 2026._
_[Last revised May 19, 2026.][commit-hx]_

[preprints-org]: https://www.preprints.org/blog/post/preprints
[publishing-status-ontology]: http://purl.org/spar/pso
[pso-green-open-access]: http://purl.org/spar/pso/green-open-access
[pso-publication-status]: http://purl.org/spar/pso/PublicationStatus
[datacite]: https://datacite.org/
[commit-hx]: https://github.com/drzhelnov/drzhelnov.github.io/commits/master/b/2026-05-19-preprint.md
