usmle/meta/week1.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 1

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - **Week 1**
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Clinical Skills- Patient Centered Interviewing

**Required:**

*   [Ch 1 - The Medical Interview IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676022)
    
    > [[glternative]](http://glternative.com/11/)
    >
    > Also read Foreword – see [glternative](http://glternative.com/52/).

    For TBL 1
    
*   [Ch 2 - Data-Gathering and Empathy Skills IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676059)

    > [[glternative]](http://glternative.com/58/)
    
    For TBL 1
    
*   [Ch 3 - The Beginning of the Interview: Patient Centered Interviewing IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676161)
    
    For TBL 1
    

## Clinical Skills - Patient Centered Care, Biopsychosocial Formulation

**Delve Deeper**

*   [The biopsychosocial model of illness: a model whose time has come.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1177/0269215517709890)
    
    Wade DT, Halligan PW. The biopsychosocial model of illness: a model whose time has come. Clin Rehabil. 2017 Aug;31(8):995-1004. doi: 10.1177/0269215517709890.
    
*   [Patient-centered, Person-centered, and Person-directed Care: They Are Not the Same](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&AN=00005650-201507000-00001&D=ovft&PDF=y)
    
    Lines LM, Lepore M, Wiener JM. Patient-centered, Person-centered, and Person-directed Care: They are Not the Same. Med Care. 2015;53(7):561-563. doi:10.1097/MLR.0000000000000387
    

**Books:**

*   No Apparent Distress by Rachel Pearson
    
    Call Number: W 18 P362n 2017 (Reserve Core)
    
    ISBN: 9780393249248
    
    Publication Date: 2017
    
*   A Not Entirely Benign Procedure by Perri Klass
    
    Call Number: W 18 K63N 1987 (Reserve Core)
    
    ISBN: 9780452272583
    
    Publication Date: 1987
    

## Chronic Disease - Lived Experience

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The importance of physician listening from the patients' perspective: enhancing diagnosis, healing, and the doctor-patient relationship](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pec.2011.01.028)
    
    Jagosh J, Donald Boudreau J, Steinert Y, Macdonald ME, Ingram L. The importance of physician listening from the patients' perspective: enhancing diagnosis, healing, and the doctor-patient relationship. Patient Educ Couns. 2011;85(3):369-374. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2011.01.028
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

**Delve Deeper**

**Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination**

**Musculoskeletal System:**

*   [Ch 16 - Musculoskeletal Physical Examination - Bates](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21783)
    
    *   Video
    
    32:59
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.1 Introduction - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091354)
    
    *   Video
    
    2:32 minutes
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.2 Anatomy Review - Mandible - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091354)
    
    *   Video
    
    0:31
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.3 Examining the Mandible - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091358)
    
    *   Video
    
    0:52
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.4 Anatomy Review - Shoulders - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091360)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 3 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.5 Examining the Shoulders - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091362)
    
    *   Video
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.6 Anatomy Review - Elbows - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091364)
    
    *   Video
    
    37 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.7 Examining the Elbows - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091366)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 16 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.8 Anatomy Review - Wrists and Hands - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091368)
    
    *   Video
    
    56 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.9 Examining the Wrists and Hands - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091370)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 49 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.10 Anatomy Review - Spine - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091372)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 17 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.11 Examining the Spine - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091374)
    
    *   Video
    
    2 min 49 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.12. Anatomy Review - Hips - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091376)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 08 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.13 Examining the Hips - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091378)
    
    *   Video
    
    4 min 12 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.14 Anatomy Review - Knees - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091380)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 40 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.15 Examining the Knees - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091382)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 10 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.17 Examining the Ankles and Feet - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091386)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 31 sec
    

## Career

**AAMC Careers in Medicine**

*   [Careers in Medicine](https://www.aamc.org/cim/)
    
    Note: you must log in to use the resources. Careers in Medicine is a program of the AAMC. It is a career planning program designed to help you choose a medical specialty and select and apply to a residency program. [View all specialties](https://www.aamc.org/cim/specialty/list/)
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

Delve Deeper

Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination

**Neuro Exam**

*   [Ch 17 - 17.3 Anatomy Review - Cranial Nerves - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091394)
    
    *   Video
    
    44 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.4 Examining the Cranial Nerves I-XII - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091396)
    
    *   Video
    
    9 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.5 Examining the Motor System - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091398)
    
    *   Video
    
    5 min 14 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.6 Assessment of Coordination - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091400)
    
    *   Video
    
    4 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 18 - Nervous System: Sensory System and Reflexes Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21785)
    
    *   Video
    
    16 min 34 sec - watch all videos in this chapter
    

## Library Lab Handouts

Handouts Complementing the Library Lab

*   [Library Lab Outline](/usmle/meta/LibraryLabOutline.pdf)
    
*   [Evaluating Health Information and Literature Validity](/usmle/meta/EvalResources-LitValidity.pdf)

*   [Library Lab Exercises](https://utmb.libwizard.com/f/meta-librarylab)
    

The Manual of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests is giving some students problems in side the tutorial. Try this link to answer that question. 

If the transferrin link does not work, click on the book title below and:

1.  Search transferrin
2.  Click **Current Book**
3.  Click Ovid Full-text link in the search results

*   [Transferrin](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.dc2.ovid.com.libux.utmb.edu/sp-4.07.0b/ovidweb.cgi?&S=CJBKFPKJNDEBAPBCIPAKNHEHADIPAA00&Link+Set=S.sh.51%7c1%7csl_10&Counter5=SS_full_text%7c02060355%2f10th_Edition%2f2%7cbooks%7cbookdb%7cbooks2)
    

*   [A Manual of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests by Frances Talaska Fischbach; Margaret A. Fischbach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=booktext&D=books2&AN=02060355/10th_Edition/2&XPATH=/OVIDBOOK%5b1%5d/METADATA%5b1%5d/TBY%5b1%5d/AUTHORS%5b1%5d)
    
    Call Number: QY 25 F528m 2009 (Reserve)
    
    ISBN: 9781496377128
    
    Publication Date: 2018

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week1
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021

Library Lab Outline:
https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=55939917
Captured on May 10, 2021

Evaluating Health Information and Literature Validity:
https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=55939861
Captured on May 10, 2021
```

Commit message:

Link to Smith's free (as of now) online supplement

usmle/meta/week1.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 1

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - **Week 1**
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Clinical Skills- Patient Centered Interviewing

**Required:**

*   [Ch 1 - The Medical Interview IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676022)
    
    > [[glternative]](http://glternative.com/11/)
    >
    > Also read Foreword – see [glternative](http://glternative.com/52/).

    For TBL 1
    
*   [Ch 2 - Data-Gathering and Empathy Skills IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676059)

    > [[glternative]](http://glternative.com/58/)
    
    For TBL 1
    
*   [Ch 3 - The Beginning of the Interview: Patient Centered Interviewing IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676161)

    > Also see high-yielding [Companion Videos](https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=194191290) that are referenced throughout the Smith’s text (publicly available on the website as of Sep 4, 2021).
    >
    > I have also found that the [online Teaching Supplement](https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193677069) is publicly available (as of Sep 4, 2021), that should probably be of use.
    
    For TBL 1
    

## Clinical Skills - Patient Centered Care, Biopsychosocial Formulation

**Delve Deeper**

*   [The biopsychosocial model of illness: a model whose time has come.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1177/0269215517709890)
    
    Wade DT, Halligan PW. The biopsychosocial model of illness: a model whose time has come. Clin Rehabil. 2017 Aug;31(8):995-1004. doi: 10.1177/0269215517709890.
    
*   [Patient-centered, Person-centered, and Person-directed Care: They Are Not the Same](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&AN=00005650-201507000-00001&D=ovft&PDF=y)
    
    Lines LM, Lepore M, Wiener JM. Patient-centered, Person-centered, and Person-directed Care: They are Not the Same. Med Care. 2015;53(7):561-563. doi:10.1097/MLR.0000000000000387
    

**Books:**

*   No Apparent Distress by Rachel Pearson
    
    Call Number: W 18 P362n 2017 (Reserve Core)
    
    ISBN: 9780393249248
    
    Publication Date: 2017
    
*   A Not Entirely Benign Procedure by Perri Klass
    
    Call Number: W 18 K63N 1987 (Reserve Core)
    
    ISBN: 9780452272583
    
    Publication Date: 1987
    

## Chronic Disease - Lived Experience

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The importance of physician listening from the patients' perspective: enhancing diagnosis, healing, and the doctor-patient relationship](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pec.2011.01.028)
    
    Jagosh J, Donald Boudreau J, Steinert Y, Macdonald ME, Ingram L. The importance of physician listening from the patients' perspective: enhancing diagnosis, healing, and the doctor-patient relationship. Patient Educ Couns. 2011;85(3):369-374. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2011.01.028
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

**Delve Deeper**

**Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination**

**Musculoskeletal System:**

*   [Ch 16 - Musculoskeletal Physical Examination - Bates](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21783)
    
    *   Video
    
    32:59
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.1 Introduction - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091354)
    
    *   Video
    
    2:32 minutes
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.2 Anatomy Review - Mandible - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091354)
    
    *   Video
    
    0:31
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.3 Examining the Mandible - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091358)
    
    *   Video
    
    0:52
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.4 Anatomy Review - Shoulders - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091360)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 3 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.5 Examining the Shoulders - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091362)
    
    *   Video
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.6 Anatomy Review - Elbows - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091364)
    
    *   Video
    
    37 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.7 Examining the Elbows - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091366)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 16 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.8 Anatomy Review - Wrists and Hands - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091368)
    
    *   Video
    
    56 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.9 Examining the Wrists and Hands - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091370)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 49 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.10 Anatomy Review - Spine - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091372)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 17 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.11 Examining the Spine - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091374)
    
    *   Video
    
    2 min 49 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.12. Anatomy Review - Hips - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091376)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 08 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.13 Examining the Hips - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091378)
    
    *   Video
    
    4 min 12 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.14 Anatomy Review - Knees - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091380)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 40 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.15 Examining the Knees - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091382)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 10 sec
    
*   [Ch 16 - 16.17 Examining the Ankles and Feet - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091386)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 min 31 sec
    

## Career

**AAMC Careers in Medicine**

*   [Careers in Medicine](https://www.aamc.org/cim/)
    
    Note: you must log in to use the resources. Careers in Medicine is a program of the AAMC. It is a career planning program designed to help you choose a medical specialty and select and apply to a residency program. [View all specialties](https://www.aamc.org/cim/specialty/list/)
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

Delve Deeper

Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination

**Neuro Exam**

*   [Ch 17 - 17.3 Anatomy Review - Cranial Nerves - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091394)
    
    *   Video
    
    44 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.4 Examining the Cranial Nerves I-XII - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091396)
    
    *   Video
    
    9 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.5 Examining the Motor System - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091398)
    
    *   Video
    
    5 min 14 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.6 Assessment of Coordination - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091400)
    
    *   Video
    
    4 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 18 - Nervous System: Sensory System and Reflexes Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21785)
    
    *   Video
    
    16 min 34 sec - watch all videos in this chapter
    

## Library Lab Handouts

Handouts Complementing the Library Lab

*   [Library Lab Outline](/usmle/meta/LibraryLabOutline.pdf)
    
*   [Evaluating Health Information and Literature Validity](/usmle/meta/EvalResources-LitValidity.pdf)

*   [Library Lab Exercises](https://utmb.libwizard.com/f/meta-librarylab)
    

The Manual of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests is giving some students problems in side the tutorial. Try this link to answer that question. 

If the transferrin link does not work, click on the book title below and:

1.  Search transferrin
2.  Click **Current Book**
3.  Click Ovid Full-text link in the search results

*   [Transferrin](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.dc2.ovid.com.libux.utmb.edu/sp-4.07.0b/ovidweb.cgi?&S=CJBKFPKJNDEBAPBCIPAKNHEHADIPAA00&Link+Set=S.sh.51%7c1%7csl_10&Counter5=SS_full_text%7c02060355%2f10th_Edition%2f2%7cbooks%7cbookdb%7cbooks2)
    

*   [A Manual of Laboratory and Diagnostic Tests by Frances Talaska Fischbach; Margaret A. Fischbach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=booktext&D=books2&AN=02060355/10th_Edition/2&XPATH=/OVIDBOOK%5b1%5d/METADATA%5b1%5d/TBY%5b1%5d/AUTHORS%5b1%5d)
    
    Call Number: QY 25 F528m 2009 (Reserve)
    
    ISBN: 9781496377128
    
    Publication Date: 2018

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week1
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021

Library Lab Outline:
https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=55939917
Captured on May 10, 2021

Evaluating Health Information and Literature Validity:
https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=55939861
Captured on May 10, 2021
```
