usmle/meta/week5.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 5

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

Note - Required Anti-Racism Readings for Week 5 are listed here and also on the [Anti-Racism Readings tab](/meta/w5-antiracism/), along with definitions of Novice, Intermediate, and Expert.. Be sure to check out the resources on the [Ant-Racism Readings tab](/meta/w5-antiracism/) to delve deeper into this important topic. 

## Learning - Growth Mindset & Shame Resilience

**Required:**

Total Time: 29 min 46 sec

*   [Growth Mindset Vs. Fixed Mindset: An Introduction TEDED](https://ed.ted.com/featured/qrZmOV7R)
    
    *   Video
    
    In class activity - 2 min 42 sec
    
*   [The Power of Believing You Can Improve - TED Talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve)
    
    *   Video
    
    Carol Dweck; 10 min 13 sec
    
*   [The Power of belief -- mindset and success - TEDx](https://youtu.be/pN34FNbOKXc)
    
    *   Video
    
    Eduardo Briceno; 10 min 51 sec
    
*   [Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance - TED](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_grit_the_power_of_passion_and_perseverance?utm_campaign=tedspread&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=tedcomshare)
    
    *   Video
    
    Angela Duckworth; 6 min
    

**Delve Deeper:**

Total viewing time: 57 min 24 sec

*   [The Power of Vulnerability - TED](https://youtu.be/iCvmsMzlF7o)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 20 min 49 sec
    
*   [The Price of Invulnerability - TED](https://youtu.be/_UoMXF73j0c)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 15 min 57 sec
    
*   [Listening to Shame - TED](https://youtu.be/psN1DORYYV0)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 20 min 38 sec
    
*   [Podcast: Brené on Shame and Accountability: Unlocking Us with Brené Brown](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/unlocking-us-with-bren%C3%A9-brown/id1494350511?i=1000480887474)
    
*   [Stories of Shame](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30897-3)
    
    Lyons B, Gibson M, Dolezal L. Stories of shame. Lancet. 2018 Apr 21;391(10130):1568-1569. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30897-3.
    
*   [Silence Your Inner Critic](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=134782770&site=ehost-live)
    
    Pincott J. Silence Your Inner Critic. Psychology Today. 2019;52(2):48-57.
    
*   [9 Ways to Fail Better](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=38710100&site=ehost-live)
    
    Grierson B. Nine Ways to Fail Better. Psychology Today. 2009;42(3):72-73.
    
*   [Beyond Happiness: The Upside of Feeling Down](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=99976631&site=ehost-live)
    
    Hutson M. Beyond Happiness: The Upside of Feeling Down. Psychology Today. 2015;48(1):44-52,82
    
*   [The mindset you need to succeed at every goal](https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20200722-the-mindset-you-need-to-succeed-at-every-goal)
    
    BBC -By David Robson - 22nd July 2020
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Of note about the invention of the light bulb - Edison had a team!  
    "Edison and his team of researchers in Edison's laboratory in Menlo Park, N.J., tested more than 3,000 designs for bulbs between 1878 and 1880."  
    [https://www.livescience.com/43424-who-invented-the-light-bulb.html](https://www.livescience.com/43424-who-invented-the-light-bulb.html)  
    On Edison's team was Lewis H. Latimer. Latimer was one of the first major African American inventors. He improved on and patented a more efficient way of manufacturing carbon filaments.[https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/lewis-h-latimer](https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/lewis-h-latimer)
    

## Anti-Racism - Required

**Novice - Required**

*   [How False Beliefs in Racial Physical Difference Still Live in Medicine Today](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/racial-differences-doctors.html)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    New York Times - August 14, 2019
    
*   [How Medical Education Is Missing the Bull's-eye.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1056/nejmp1915891)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Nolen L. How Medical Education Is Missing the Bull's-eye. N Engl J Med. 2020;382(26):2489-2491. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1915891
    
*   [What is Systemic Racism](https://youtu.be/p7Rq78jFiJg)
    
    *   Video
    
    6:06
    

**Intermediate - Required**

*   [Racism In Medicine Isn't An Abstract Notion. It's Happening All Around Us, Every Day](https://www.wbur.org/cognoscenti/2020/06/12/anti-racism-in-medicine-hospitals-ayotomiwa-ojo)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Ayotomiwa Ojo. wbur Cognoscenti. June 12, 2020
    
*   [James Baldwin Discusses Racism](https://youtu.be/WWwOi17WHpE)
    
    *   Video
    
    17:08  
    Dick Cavett Show
    
*   [How to deconstruct racism, one headline at a time](https://youtu.be/RZgkjEdMbSw)
    
    *   Video
    
    16:50  
    Baratunde Thurston
    

**Expert - Required**

*   [Why doesn’t America have universal healthcare? The Answer Has Everything to do with Race](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/universal-health-care-racism.html)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Jeneen Interlandi. New York Times. AUG. 14, 2019
    
*   [Addressing Anti-Black Racism in Medicine — The Curbsiders Internal Medicine Podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-curbsiders-internal-medicine-podcast/id1198732014?i=1000479543786)
    
    54 min  
    Listed as Delve Deeper under Intermediate
    

## Medline Lab: Searching for Evidence

*   [PubMed Tips](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=18058793)
    
*   [How to Find Specific Study Designs](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582236)
    
*   [PubMed Facts - Sample Record](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582252)
    

## Medline Lab: Practice Exercise & Self Assessment

*   [Search Exercise](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582263)
    
    After completing the search exercise, complete the self-assessment linked below
    

*   [Self-Assessment](https://utmb.libwizard.com/id/158fafb63cd169fe2415f673d87ee629)
    
    Please complete after you complete the search exercise
    

## Living Through a Pandemic

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [#225 Women in Medicine: COVID Edition: The Curbsiders podcast](https://thecurbsiders.com/podcast/225)
    
    01:14:15  
    Listen as our expert guests, Kelly Graham, MD, MPH (@KellyGrahamMD) and Lekshmi Santhosh, MD MAEd (@LekshmiMD), detail the professional and personal challenges faced by women in medicine during the COVID-19 pandemic.
    
*   [Psychological Trauma Is the Next Crisis for Coronavirus Health Workers](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/psychological-trauma-is-the-next-crisis-for-coronavirus-health-workers1/)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Mock J. Psychological Trauma Is the Next Crisis for Coronavirus Health Workers. Scientific American. 2020; 322(6): 36-7.  
    Original Title: "Frontline Trauma"
    
*   [Resources for Healthcare Professionals Coping with the COVID-19 Pandemic - The Schwartz Center for Compassionate Healthcare](https://www.theschwartzcenter.org/covid-19)
    

## Differently Abled Lived Experience and Panel

**Pre-Class Preparation:**  
Watch one of these videos. Write a reflection of what the hardest and most joyful part of  "a day in their life" wound be like to share with your small group.

*   [FRAME: Faces Redefining the Art of Medical Education](https://positiveexposure.org/frame/)
    

## Medical Terminology

**Anki**

*   [Anki - Info and Download](https://apps.ankiweb.net/)
    

**Delve Deeper -  Anki Tutorials**

*   [Anki Tutorial](https://youtu.be/e9GtFLAI2RU)
    
    *   Video
    
    8:26
    
*   [How to Use Anki Effectively - Flash Card Basics for Pre-Med and Med Students \[Part 1\]](https://youtu.be/7K2StK7e3ww)
    
    *   Video
    
    5:29
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Anatomical Language - Anatomy TV](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.anatomy.tv/anatomytv/html5uihap_2018/#/product/bodyplan/type/Topics/displayType/displayFlash/id/5)
    

**Medical Dictionaries**  
(Note: These are also linked on the Student's Guide to Clinical Information Sources)

*   [Stedman's Medical Dictionary by Thomas Lathrop Stedman](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://online.statref.com//dictionaryhelp.aspx?type=dictionary&grpalias=TEX)
    
    Call Number: W 13 S812m 2006 (Reserve)
    
    ISBN: 9780781733908
    
    Publication Date: 2016
    
*   [Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary by Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/medical)
    
    ISBN: 0877792941
    
*   [Taber's Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://online.statref.com/Home/Resolve?id=25061&grpalias=TEX)
    
    ISBN: 9780803659049
    
    Publication Date: 2017
    
*   [image of a headWho Named It.com: Dictionary of Medical Eponyms by Ole Daniel Enersen](http://www.whonamedit.com/)
    
    Publication Date: no date

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week5
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```

Commit message:

Add module navigation & notices to META
Felt the need for module navigation when started working with Week 1.

usmle/meta/week5.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 5

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

Note - Required Anti-Racism Readings for Week 5 are listed here and also on the [Anti-Racism Readings tab](/meta/w5-antiracism/), along with definitions of Novice, Intermediate, and Expert.. Be sure to check out the resources on the [Ant-Racism Readings tab](/meta/w5-antiracism/) to delve deeper into this important topic. 

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - [Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html)
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - **Week 5**
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Learning - Growth Mindset & Shame Resilience

**Required:**

Total Time: 29 min 46 sec

*   [Growth Mindset Vs. Fixed Mindset: An Introduction TEDED](https://ed.ted.com/featured/qrZmOV7R)
    
    *   Video
    
    In class activity - 2 min 42 sec
    
*   [The Power of Believing You Can Improve - TED Talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve)
    
    *   Video
    
    Carol Dweck; 10 min 13 sec
    
*   [The Power of belief -- mindset and success - TEDx](https://youtu.be/pN34FNbOKXc)
    
    *   Video
    
    Eduardo Briceno; 10 min 51 sec
    
*   [Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance - TED](https://www.ted.com/talks/angela_lee_duckworth_grit_the_power_of_passion_and_perseverance?utm_campaign=tedspread&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=tedcomshare)
    
    *   Video
    
    Angela Duckworth; 6 min
    

**Delve Deeper:**

Total viewing time: 57 min 24 sec

*   [The Power of Vulnerability - TED](https://youtu.be/iCvmsMzlF7o)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 20 min 49 sec
    
*   [The Price of Invulnerability - TED](https://youtu.be/_UoMXF73j0c)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 15 min 57 sec
    
*   [Listening to Shame - TED](https://youtu.be/psN1DORYYV0)
    
    *   Video
    
    Brene Brown; 20 min 38 sec
    
*   [Podcast: Brené on Shame and Accountability: Unlocking Us with Brené Brown](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/unlocking-us-with-bren%C3%A9-brown/id1494350511?i=1000480887474)
    
*   [Stories of Shame](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30897-3)
    
    Lyons B, Gibson M, Dolezal L. Stories of shame. Lancet. 2018 Apr 21;391(10130):1568-1569. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30897-3.
    
*   [Silence Your Inner Critic](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=134782770&site=ehost-live)
    
    Pincott J. Silence Your Inner Critic. Psychology Today. 2019;52(2):48-57.
    
*   [9 Ways to Fail Better](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=38710100&site=ehost-live)
    
    Grierson B. Nine Ways to Fail Better. Psychology Today. 2009;42(3):72-73.
    
*   [Beyond Happiness: The Upside of Feeling Down](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=99976631&site=ehost-live)
    
    Hutson M. Beyond Happiness: The Upside of Feeling Down. Psychology Today. 2015;48(1):44-52,82
    
*   [The mindset you need to succeed at every goal](https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20200722-the-mindset-you-need-to-succeed-at-every-goal)
    
    BBC -By David Robson - 22nd July 2020
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Of note about the invention of the light bulb - Edison had a team!  
    "Edison and his team of researchers in Edison's laboratory in Menlo Park, N.J., tested more than 3,000 designs for bulbs between 1878 and 1880."  
    [https://www.livescience.com/43424-who-invented-the-light-bulb.html](https://www.livescience.com/43424-who-invented-the-light-bulb.html)  
    On Edison's team was Lewis H. Latimer. Latimer was one of the first major African American inventors. He improved on and patented a more efficient way of manufacturing carbon filaments.[https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/lewis-h-latimer](https://lemelson.mit.edu/resources/lewis-h-latimer)
    

## Anti-Racism - Required

**Novice - Required**

*   [How False Beliefs in Racial Physical Difference Still Live in Medicine Today](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/racial-differences-doctors.html)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    New York Times - August 14, 2019
    
*   [How Medical Education Is Missing the Bull's-eye.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1056/nejmp1915891)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Nolen L. How Medical Education Is Missing the Bull's-eye. N Engl J Med. 2020;382(26):2489-2491. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1915891
    
*   [What is Systemic Racism](https://youtu.be/p7Rq78jFiJg)
    
    *   Video
    
    6:06
    

**Intermediate - Required**

*   [Racism In Medicine Isn't An Abstract Notion. It's Happening All Around Us, Every Day](https://www.wbur.org/cognoscenti/2020/06/12/anti-racism-in-medicine-hospitals-ayotomiwa-ojo)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Ayotomiwa Ojo. wbur Cognoscenti. June 12, 2020
    
*   [James Baldwin Discusses Racism](https://youtu.be/WWwOi17WHpE)
    
    *   Video
    
    17:08  
    Dick Cavett Show
    
*   [How to deconstruct racism, one headline at a time](https://youtu.be/RZgkjEdMbSw)
    
    *   Video
    
    16:50  
    Baratunde Thurston
    

**Expert - Required**

*   [Why doesn’t America have universal healthcare? The Answer Has Everything to do with Race](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/universal-health-care-racism.html)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Jeneen Interlandi. New York Times. AUG. 14, 2019
    
*   [Addressing Anti-Black Racism in Medicine — The Curbsiders Internal Medicine Podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-curbsiders-internal-medicine-podcast/id1198732014?i=1000479543786)
    
    54 min  
    Listed as Delve Deeper under Intermediate
    

## Medline Lab: Searching for Evidence

*   [PubMed Tips](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=18058793)
    
*   [How to Find Specific Study Designs](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582236)
    
*   [PubMed Facts - Sample Record](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582252)
    

## Medline Lab: Practice Exercise & Self Assessment

*   [Search Exercise](https://guides.utmb.edu/ld.php?content_id=56582263)
    
    After completing the search exercise, complete the self-assessment linked below
    

*   [Self-Assessment](https://utmb.libwizard.com/id/158fafb63cd169fe2415f673d87ee629)
    
    Please complete after you complete the search exercise
    

## Living Through a Pandemic

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [#225 Women in Medicine: COVID Edition: The Curbsiders podcast](https://thecurbsiders.com/podcast/225)
    
    01:14:15  
    Listen as our expert guests, Kelly Graham, MD, MPH (@KellyGrahamMD) and Lekshmi Santhosh, MD MAEd (@LekshmiMD), detail the professional and personal challenges faced by women in medicine during the COVID-19 pandemic.
    
*   [Psychological Trauma Is the Next Crisis for Coronavirus Health Workers](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/psychological-trauma-is-the-next-crisis-for-coronavirus-health-workers1/)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Mock J. Psychological Trauma Is the Next Crisis for Coronavirus Health Workers. Scientific American. 2020; 322(6): 36-7.  
    Original Title: "Frontline Trauma"
    
*   [Resources for Healthcare Professionals Coping with the COVID-19 Pandemic - The Schwartz Center for Compassionate Healthcare](https://www.theschwartzcenter.org/covid-19)
    

## Differently Abled Lived Experience and Panel

**Pre-Class Preparation:**  
Watch one of these videos. Write a reflection of what the hardest and most joyful part of  "a day in their life" wound be like to share with your small group.

*   [FRAME: Faces Redefining the Art of Medical Education](https://positiveexposure.org/frame/)
    

## Medical Terminology

**Anki**

*   [Anki - Info and Download](https://apps.ankiweb.net/)
    

**Delve Deeper -  Anki Tutorials**

*   [Anki Tutorial](https://youtu.be/e9GtFLAI2RU)
    
    *   Video
    
    8:26
    
*   [How to Use Anki Effectively - Flash Card Basics for Pre-Med and Med Students \[Part 1\]](https://youtu.be/7K2StK7e3ww)
    
    *   Video
    
    5:29
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Anatomical Language - Anatomy TV](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.anatomy.tv/anatomytv/html5uihap_2018/#/product/bodyplan/type/Topics/displayType/displayFlash/id/5)
    

**Medical Dictionaries**  
(Note: These are also linked on the Student's Guide to Clinical Information Sources)

*   [Stedman's Medical Dictionary by Thomas Lathrop Stedman](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://online.statref.com//dictionaryhelp.aspx?type=dictionary&grpalias=TEX)
    
    Call Number: W 13 S812m 2006 (Reserve)
    
    ISBN: 9780781733908
    
    Publication Date: 2016
    
*   [Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary by Merriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/medical)
    
    ISBN: 0877792941
    
*   [Taber's Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://online.statref.com/Home/Resolve?id=25061&grpalias=TEX)
    
    ISBN: 9780803659049
    
    Publication Date: 2017
    
*   [image of a headWho Named It.com: Dictionary of Medical Eponyms by Ole Daniel Enersen](http://www.whonamedit.com/)
    
    Publication Date: no date

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week5
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
