usmle/meta/week6.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 6

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

## Social Determinants of Health/Cultural Humility

**Pre-Reading for LGBTQI+ Session**

*   [Pronouns Matter](https://lgbt.ucsf.edu/pronounsmatter)
    
    UCSF LGBT Resource Center
    
*   [10 Stats You Need to Know about LGBT Healthcare](http://blog.lighthouse.lgbt/10-stats-lgbtq-healthcare/)
    
*   [LGBT Health Disparities - APA Public Interest Government Relations Office](https://www.apa.org/advocacy/health-disparities/lgbt-health.pdf)
    
*   [How the Stonewall Riots Sparked a Movement - History Channel](https://youtu.be/Q9wdMJmuBlA)
    
    *   Video
    
    3:54 minutes
    

## Agents of Change

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The Forgotten Tale of How Black Psychiatrists Helped Make ‘Sesame Street’](https://www.thedailybeast.com/chester-pierce-the-forgotten-tale-of-how-a-black-psychiatrist-helped-make-sesame-street)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week6
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```

Commit message:

Add module navigation & notices to META
Felt the need for module navigation when started working with Week 1.

usmle/meta/week6.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 6

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - [Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html)
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - **Week 6**

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Social Determinants of Health/Cultural Humility

**Pre-Reading for LGBTQI+ Session**

*   [Pronouns Matter](https://lgbt.ucsf.edu/pronounsmatter)
    
    UCSF LGBT Resource Center
    
*   [10 Stats You Need to Know about LGBT Healthcare](http://blog.lighthouse.lgbt/10-stats-lgbtq-healthcare/)
    
*   [LGBT Health Disparities - APA Public Interest Government Relations Office](https://www.apa.org/advocacy/health-disparities/lgbt-health.pdf)
    
*   [How the Stonewall Riots Sparked a Movement - History Channel](https://youtu.be/Q9wdMJmuBlA)
    
    *   Video
    
    3:54 minutes
    

## Agents of Change

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The Forgotten Tale of How Black Psychiatrists Helped Make ‘Sesame Street’](https://www.thedailybeast.com/chester-pierce-the-forgotten-tale-of-how-a-black-psychiatrist-helped-make-sesame-street)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week6
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
