usmle/meta/week3.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 3

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

## Outside of Class Activities

Finish reading _In Shock_ and _Learning in Medicine_ if you haven't already.

## Clinical Skills - Note Writing

**Required:**

*   [Ch 9 Summarizing and Presenting the Patient's Story IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676936)
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The Medical History and Physical - Strong Medicine, Eric Strong, MD](https://youtu.be/0BfkBC34U38)
    
    *   Video
    
    Comprehensive review of the full written and oral History and Physical (H&P), including a comparison of how written and oral H&Ps differ; 30 min 08 sec
    
*   [Write Ups IN: UCSD's a Practical Guide to Clinical Medicine](https://meded.ucsd.edu/clinicalmed/write.htm)
    

## Introduction to US Healthcare

**Required:**  
(Watch/read  prior to US Healthcare event)

*   [The Economics of Healthcare: Crash Course Econ #29](https://youtu.be/cbBKoyjFLUY)
    
    *   Video
    
    10:25
    
*   [Healthcare Systems in Comparative Perspective](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-soc-071312-145609)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Beckfield J, Olafsdottir S, Sosnaud B. Healthcare Systems in Comparative Perspective: Classification, Convergence, Institutions, Inequalities, and Five Missed Turns. Annu Rev Sociol. 2013;39:127-146. doi:10.1146/annurev-soc-071312-145609
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Despite some progress, thousands in Galveston County struggle to pay medical bills](https://www.galvnews.com/news/article_e992f2eb-7f3e-53a2-ba12-8f9ceb426701.html)
    
    Galveston County Daily News, Aug 2019
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    [Click Here](https://liveutmb-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/jtrumble_utmb_edu/EcEetu5FXpRNqV9I2S2DgTkB2slPp8fSv6unB9425h_zHA?e=yRM3Rb)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week3
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```

Commit message:

Add module navigation & notices to META
Felt the need for module navigation when started working with Week 1.

usmle/meta/week3.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 3

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - [Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html)
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - **Week 3**
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----
## Outside of Class Activities

Finish reading _In Shock_ and _Learning in Medicine_ if you haven't already.

## Clinical Skills - Note Writing

**Required:**

*   [Ch 9 Summarizing and Presenting the Patient's Story IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676936)
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [The Medical History and Physical - Strong Medicine, Eric Strong, MD](https://youtu.be/0BfkBC34U38)
    
    *   Video
    
    Comprehensive review of the full written and oral History and Physical (H&P), including a comparison of how written and oral H&Ps differ; 30 min 08 sec
    
*   [Write Ups IN: UCSD's a Practical Guide to Clinical Medicine](https://meded.ucsd.edu/clinicalmed/write.htm)
    

## Introduction to US Healthcare

**Required:**  
(Watch/read  prior to US Healthcare event)

*   [The Economics of Healthcare: Crash Course Econ #29](https://youtu.be/cbBKoyjFLUY)
    
    *   Video
    
    10:25
    
*   [Healthcare Systems in Comparative Perspective](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-soc-071312-145609)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Beckfield J, Olafsdottir S, Sosnaud B. Healthcare Systems in Comparative Perspective: Classification, Convergence, Institutions, Inequalities, and Five Missed Turns. Annu Rev Sociol. 2013;39:127-146. doi:10.1146/annurev-soc-071312-145609
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Despite some progress, thousands in Galveston County struggle to pay medical bills](https://www.galvnews.com/news/article_e992f2eb-7f3e-53a2-ba12-8f9ceb426701.html)
    
    Galveston County Daily News, Aug 2019
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    [Click Here](https://liveutmb-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/jtrumble_utmb_edu/EcEetu5FXpRNqV9I2S2DgTkB2slPp8fSv6unB9425h_zHA?e=yRM3Rb)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week3
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
