usmle/meta/week4.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 4

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

## Professionalism

*   [UTMB Professionalism Charter](https://www.utmb.edu/professionalism/about-us/professionalism-charter)
    
*   [Professionalism at UTMB](https://www.utmb.edu/professionalism)
    

## Learning - Feedback

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Walking on Eggshells With Trainees in the Clinical Learning Environment-Avoiding the Eggshells Is Not the Answer](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1001/jamapediatrics.2019.2501)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Gold MA, Rosenthal SL, Wainberg ML. Walking on Eggshells With Trainees in the Clinical Learning Environment-Avoiding the Eggshells Is Not the Answer. JAMA Pediatr. 2019 Aug 5. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2019.2501.
    
*   [Walking on Eggshells in Medical Schools - New York Times article references the JAMA Pediatrics Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/09/well/family/walking-on-eggshells-in-medical-schools.html)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week4
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```

Commit message:

Add module navigation & notices to META
Felt the need for module navigation when started working with Week 1.

usmle/meta/week4.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 4

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - [Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html)
  - [Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html)
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - **Week 4**
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Professionalism

*   [UTMB Professionalism Charter](https://www.utmb.edu/professionalism/about-us/professionalism-charter)
    
*   [Professionalism at UTMB](https://www.utmb.edu/professionalism)
    

## Learning - Feedback

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Walking on Eggshells With Trainees in the Clinical Learning Environment-Avoiding the Eggshells Is Not the Answer](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1001/jamapediatrics.2019.2501)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Gold MA, Rosenthal SL, Wainberg ML. Walking on Eggshells With Trainees in the Clinical Learning Environment-Avoiding the Eggshells Is Not the Answer. JAMA Pediatr. 2019 Aug 5. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2019.2501.
    
*   [Walking on Eggshells in Medical Schools - New York Times article references the JAMA Pediatrics Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/09/well/family/walking-on-eggshells-in-medical-schools.html)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week4
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
