usmle/meta/week2.md, before:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 2

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

## Clinical Skills- Patient Centered Interviewing

**Introduction to Note Writing**

**Required:**

*   [Ch 9 Summarizing and Presenting the Patient's Story IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676936)
    

**Required Pre-Readaing - Part 2 TBL**

*   [Ch 4 - Symptom-Defining Skills IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewiing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676303)
    
    For TBL 2
    
*   [Ch 5 - The Middle of the Interview: Clinician-Centered Interviewing IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676388)
    
    For TBL 2
    
*   [Ch 6 - Step 11: The End of the Interview IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676577)
    
    For TBL 2
    

**Delve Deeper:**  
Video Run Time Total: 2 hours 26 minutes

*   [Clinician-Centered Interviewing: An Evidence-Based Approach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633717)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 hour 9 minutes
    
*   [Building Efficiency and Effectiveness through Patient-Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633716)
    
    *   Video
    
    14 min 13 sec
    
*   [Patient-Centered Interviewing: An Evidence-Based Approach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633718)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 hour 17 min
    

## Clinical Skills - History Taking

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Article - Be Human. Be Kind.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&AN=00001888-201906000-00026&LSLINK=80&D=ovft)
    
    Rolls J. Be Human. Be Kind. Acad Med. 2019 Jun;94(6):770. doi:  
    10.1097/ACM.0000000000002677. PubMed PMID: 31136345.
    
*   [PodCast - Be Human. Be Kind.](https://soundcloud.com/academicmedicine/be-human-be-kind)
    
    4 min 45 sec
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

**Delve Deeper:**

**Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination**

**Abdominal Exam:**

*   [Ch 13 Abdomen - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryId=21787#21780)
    
    *   Video
    
    16 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 13 - 13.3 Anatomy Review -Abdomen - - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091322)
    
    *   Video
    
    2 min 12 sec
    
*   [Ch 13 - 13. 4 Examining the Abdomen - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091324)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 30 sec
    

**HEENT Exam**

*   [Ch 7 Head, Eyes, and Ears - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21774)
    
    *   Video
    
    26 min 16 sec
    
*   [Ch 8 Nose, Mouth, and Neck - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21775)
    
    *   Video
    
    18 min 01 sec
    

**Cranial Nerves II-XII**

*   [Ch 17 - 17.3 Anatomy Review - Cranial Nerves - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091394)
    
    *   Video
    
    44 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.4 Examining the Cranial Nerves I-XII - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091396)
    
    *   Video
    
    9 min 51 sec
    

## Clinical Reasoning

**Introduction to Clinical Reasoning**

**Required:**

Total Viewing Time: 39:34

*   [Introduction to Clinical Reasoning](https://youtu.be/acJspBatjJE)
    
    *   Video
    
    University of California San Francisco (UCSF) School of Medicine. Denise Connor, MD.  
    25:31
    
*   [Hypothesis Directed Data Collection](https://youtu.be/AcNW1VpdaL0)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    4:46
    
*   [Problem Representation](https://youtu.be/8YhoREXzKLc)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    5:11
    
*   [Prioritized Differential Diagnosis](https://youtu.be/-jCVFHkq938)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    4:06
    
*   [A Piece of My Mind. The Mechanics of Reasoning](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2011.1027)
    
    Dhaliwal G. A piece of my mind. The mechanics of reasoning. JAMA. 2011;306(9):918-919. doi:10.1001/jama.2011.1027
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Clinical Problem Solving - Module 1: Part 3 - Illness Scripts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KATky6USI6E)
    
    *   Video
    
    UCSF School of Medicine, Catherine Lucey, MD  
    16:57
    

**Listen to an episode of Car Talkb**

*   [Car Talk - NPR PodCast](https://www.npr.org/podcasts/510208/car-talk)
    

## Incarcerated Peoples

**Required:**  
(Read before session on Friday)

*   [Mass Incarceration Threatens Health Equity in America](https://www.rwjf.org/content/dam/farm/reports/issue_briefs/2018/rwjf450812)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Acker J, Braveman P, Arkin E, Leviton L, Parsons J, Hobor G. Mass Incarceration Threatens Health  
    Equity in America. Executive Summary. Princeton, NJ: Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, 2019.
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Psychiatrist: America's 'Extremely Punitive' Prisons Make Mental Illness Worse](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2020/07/16/891438605/psychiatrist-americas-extremely-punitive-prisons-make-mental-illness-worse)
    
    NPR, July 16, 2020
    
*   [TED Talk: We need to talk about an injustice](https://youtu.be/c2tOp7OxyQ8)
    
    *   Video
    
    Bryan Stevenson 23:41
    

## Social Determinants of Health/Cultural Humility

Social Determinants of Health & Physician Charter 

**Required:**

*   [Social Determinants of Health: It's Time to Consider the Causes of the Causes](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3863696/)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Braveman P, Gottlieb L. The social determinants of health: it's time to consider the causes of the causes. Public Health Rep. 2014 Jan-Feb;129 Suppl 2:19-31.
    
*   [Medical Professionalism in the New Millennium: A Physician Charter](https://annals.org/aim/fullarticle/474090/medical-professionalism-new-millennium-physician-charter)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    ABIM Foundation. American Board of Internal Medicine; ACP-ASIM Foundation. American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine; European Federation of Internal Medicine. Medical professionalism in the new millennium: a physician charter. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Feb 5;136(3):243-6.
    
*   [The hurrider I go the behinder I get: the deteriorating international ranking of U.S. health status.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031811-124649)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Bezruchka S. The hurrider I go the behinder I get: the deteriorating international ranking of U.S. health status. Annu Rev Public Health. 2012 Apr;33:157-73. doi: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031811-124649.
    

**Delve Deeper:**

**Social Determimamts:**

**One Health:**

*   [The rise of neglected tropical diseases in the "new Texas"](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0005581)
    
    Hotez PJ. The rise of neglected tropical diseases in the "new Texas". PLoS  
    Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Jan 18;12(1):e0005581. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0005581.  
    eCollection 2018 Jan.
    

## Outside of Class Activities

**Implicit Bias**  
Take 3 separate Harvard Implicit Bias tests: one on race, one on sexualty, and one of your choosing

*   [Harvard Implicit Bias Test](https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html)
    

_**BEFORE**_  **the Privilege Walk**  
Poverty Simulation - Run through this 3 times and keep track of what decisions you have to make to make your money last the longest  
 

*   [Poverty Simulation: It's Just Stuff Until You Don't Have It](http://playspent.org/)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week2
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```

Commit message:

Add module navigation & notices to META
Felt the need for module navigation when started working with Week 1.

usmle/meta/week2.md, after:

# META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating: Week 2

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating](/usmle/meta/course-information.html)

- **META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating**
  - [Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html)
  - **Week 2**
  - [Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html)
  - [Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html)
  - [Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html)
    - [Anti-Racism Readings](/usmle/meta/w5-antiracism.html)
  - [Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html)

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Clinical Skills- Patient Centered Interviewing

**Introduction to Note Writing**

**Required:**

*   [Ch 9 Summarizing and Presenting the Patient's Story IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676936)
    

**Required Pre-Readaing - Part 2 TBL**

*   [Ch 4 - Symptom-Defining Skills IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewiing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676303)
    
    For TBL 2
    
*   [Ch 5 - The Middle of the Interview: Clinician-Centered Interviewing IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676388)
    
    For TBL 2
    
*   [Ch 6 - Step 11: The End of the Interview IN: Smith's Patient Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=2446&sectionid=193676577)
    
    For TBL 2
    

**Delve Deeper:**  
Video Run Time Total: 2 hours 26 minutes

*   [Clinician-Centered Interviewing: An Evidence-Based Approach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633717)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 hour 9 minutes
    
*   [Building Efficiency and Effectiveness through Patient-Centered Interviewing](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633716)
    
    *   Video
    
    14 min 13 sec
    
*   [Patient-Centered Interviewing: An Evidence-Based Approach](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://accessmedicine.mhmedical.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?MultimediaID=16633718)
    
    *   Video
    
    1 hour 17 min
    

## Clinical Skills - History Taking

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Article - Be Human. Be Kind.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=http://ovidsp.ovid.com/ovidweb.cgi?T=JS&CSC=Y&NEWS=N&PAGE=fulltext&AN=00001888-201906000-00026&LSLINK=80&D=ovft)
    
    Rolls J. Be Human. Be Kind. Acad Med. 2019 Jun;94(6):770. doi:  
    10.1097/ACM.0000000000002677. PubMed PMID: 31136345.
    
*   [PodCast - Be Human. Be Kind.](https://soundcloud.com/academicmedicine/be-human-be-kind)
    
    4 min 45 sec
    

## Clinical Skills - Physical Exam

**Delve Deeper:**

**Bates' Visual Guide to Physical Examination**

**Abdominal Exam:**

*   [Ch 13 Abdomen - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryId=21787#21780)
    
    *   Video
    
    16 min 51 sec
    
*   [Ch 13 - 13.3 Anatomy Review -Abdomen - - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091322)
    
    *   Video
    
    2 min 12 sec
    
*   [Ch 13 - 13. 4 Examining the Abdomen - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091324)
    
    *   Video
    
    3 min 30 sec
    

**HEENT Exam**

*   [Ch 7 Head, Eyes, and Ears - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21774)
    
    *   Video
    
    26 min 16 sec
    
*   [Ch 8 Nose, Mouth, and Neck - All Sections - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/multimedia.aspx?categoryID=21787#21775)
    
    *   Video
    
    18 min 01 sec
    

**Cranial Nerves II-XII**

*   [Ch 17 - 17.3 Anatomy Review - Cranial Nerves - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaid=6091394)
    
    *   Video
    
    44 sec
    
*   [Ch 17 - 17.4 Examining the Cranial Nerves I-XII - Bates Visual Guide to Physical Examination](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://batesvisualguide.com/MultimediaPlayer.aspx?multimediaID=6091396)
    
    *   Video
    
    9 min 51 sec
    

## Clinical Reasoning

**Introduction to Clinical Reasoning**

**Required:**

Total Viewing Time: 39:34

*   [Introduction to Clinical Reasoning](https://youtu.be/acJspBatjJE)
    
    *   Video
    
    University of California San Francisco (UCSF) School of Medicine. Denise Connor, MD.  
    25:31
    
*   [Hypothesis Directed Data Collection](https://youtu.be/AcNW1VpdaL0)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    4:46
    
*   [Problem Representation](https://youtu.be/8YhoREXzKLc)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    5:11
    
*   [Prioritized Differential Diagnosis](https://youtu.be/-jCVFHkq938)
    
    *   Video
    
    Society to Improve Diagnostics in Medicine  
    4:06
    
*   [A Piece of My Mind. The Mechanics of Reasoning](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2011.1027)
    
    Dhaliwal G. A piece of my mind. The mechanics of reasoning. JAMA. 2011;306(9):918-919. doi:10.1001/jama.2011.1027
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Clinical Problem Solving - Module 1: Part 3 - Illness Scripts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KATky6USI6E)
    
    *   Video
    
    UCSF School of Medicine, Catherine Lucey, MD  
    16:57
    

**Listen to an episode of Car Talkb**

*   [Car Talk - NPR PodCast](https://www.npr.org/podcasts/510208/car-talk)
    

## Incarcerated Peoples

**Required:**  
(Read before session on Friday)

*   [Mass Incarceration Threatens Health Equity in America](https://www.rwjf.org/content/dam/farm/reports/issue_briefs/2018/rwjf450812)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Acker J, Braveman P, Arkin E, Leviton L, Parsons J, Hobor G. Mass Incarceration Threatens Health  
    Equity in America. Executive Summary. Princeton, NJ: Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, 2019.
    

**Delve Deeper:**

*   [Psychiatrist: America's 'Extremely Punitive' Prisons Make Mental Illness Worse](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2020/07/16/891438605/psychiatrist-americas-extremely-punitive-prisons-make-mental-illness-worse)
    
    NPR, July 16, 2020
    
*   [TED Talk: We need to talk about an injustice](https://youtu.be/c2tOp7OxyQ8)
    
    *   Video
    
    Bryan Stevenson 23:41
    

## Social Determinants of Health/Cultural Humility

Social Determinants of Health & Physician Charter 

**Required:**

*   [Social Determinants of Health: It's Time to Consider the Causes of the Causes](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3863696/)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Braveman P, Gottlieb L. The social determinants of health: it's time to consider the causes of the causes. Public Health Rep. 2014 Jan-Feb;129 Suppl 2:19-31.
    
*   [Medical Professionalism in the New Millennium: A Physician Charter](https://annals.org/aim/fullarticle/474090/medical-professionalism-new-millennium-physician-charter)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    ABIM Foundation. American Board of Internal Medicine; ACP-ASIM Foundation. American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine; European Federation of Internal Medicine. Medical professionalism in the new millennium: a physician charter. Ann Intern Med. 2002 Feb 5;136(3):243-6.
    
*   [The hurrider I go the behinder I get: the deteriorating international ranking of U.S. health status.](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031811-124649)
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Bezruchka S. The hurrider I go the behinder I get: the deteriorating international ranking of U.S. health status. Annu Rev Public Health. 2012 Apr;33:157-73. doi: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031811-124649.
    

**Delve Deeper:**

**Social Determimamts:**

**One Health:**

*   [The rise of neglected tropical diseases in the "new Texas"](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0005581)
    
    Hotez PJ. The rise of neglected tropical diseases in the "new Texas". PLoS  
    Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Jan 18;12(1):e0005581. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0005581.  
    eCollection 2018 Jan.
    

## Outside of Class Activities

**Implicit Bias**  
Take 3 separate Harvard Implicit Bias tests: one on race, one on sexualty, and one of your choosing

*   [Harvard Implicit Bias Test](https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html)
    

_**BEFORE**_  **the Privilege Walk**  
Poverty Simulation - Run through this 3 times and keep track of what decisions you have to make to make your money last the longest  
 

*   [Poverty Simulation: It's Just Stuff Until You Don't Have It](http://playspent.org/)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/meta/week2
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
