usmle/nhb/week1.md, before:

# Neuroscience and Human Behavior: Week 1

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: Neuroscience and Human Behavior](/usmle/nhb/course-information.html)

## Boards and Beyond - Suggested

List of Boards and Beyond Videos along with length

Boards and Beyond does not allow direct linking to specific videos. Links will go to the topic page where you can scroll to the video.

This Week: 52 minutes total

*   [Neurology - Step 1 - Boards and Beyond](https://boardsbeyond.com/category/step-1/neurology)
    
    *   Video
    

**Sub-Category: 01. Introduction to Neurology - 52 min**

*   Cells of the Nervous System - 15 min

    * First Aid 2018: 477
    * First Aid 2019: 481, 482
    * First Aid 2020: 493, 494, 495
    * First Aid 2021: 507, 508, 509

*   Nerve Damage - 12 min

    * First Aid 2018: 479
    * First Aid 2019: 483
    * First Aid 2020: 495
    * First Aid 2021: 510, 529, 547

*   Blood Brain Barrier - 4 min

    * First Aid 2018: 480
    * First Aid 2019: 484
    * First Aid 2020: 496
    * First Aid 2021: 511

*   Neurotransmitters - 11 min

    * First Aid 2018: 479
    * First Aid 2019: 483
    * First Aid 2020: 495
    * First Aid 2021: 510

*   Dermatomes and Reflexes - 12 min

    * First Aid 2018: 494
    * First Aid 2019: 498
    * First Aid 2020: 510
    * First Aid 2021: 527, 528

## Nolte's Human Brain, 8e

*   [Chapter 1 - Introduction to the Nervous System](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000011)
    
*   [Chapter 3 - Gross Anatomy and General Organization of the Central Nervous System](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000035)
    
*   [Chapter 7 - Electrical Signaling by Neurons](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000072)
    
*   [Chapter 8 - Synaptic Transmission Between Neurons](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000084)
    
*   [Chapter 10 - Spinal Cord](https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000102)
    
*   [Chapter 12 - Cranial Nerves and Their Nuclei](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000126)
    
    autonomic parts of CN 3, 7, 9, & 10
    

## Kandel & Schwartz Principles of Neural Science, 5e

_Note:_ _This book is only available in print - aka no electronic access._  
WL 102 P9547 2013, Reserve Core, 2nd floor Information Desk

*   Chapter 1 - The Brain and Behavior
*   Chapter 2 - Nerve Cells, Neural Circuitry, and Behavior
*   Chapter 5 -  Ion Channels
*   Chapter 6 - Membrane Potential and the Passive Electrical Properties of the Neuron
*   Chapter 7 - Propagated Signaling: The Action Potential
*   Chapter 8 - Overview of Synaptic Transmission
*   Chapter 9 - Signaling at the Nerve-Muscle Synapse: Directly Gated Transmission
*   Chapter 10 - Synaptic Integration of the Nervous System
*   Chapter 11 - Modulation of Synaptic Transmission: Second Messengers
*   Chapter 12 - Transmitter Release
*   Chapter 13 - Neurotransmitters
*   Chapter 14 - Diseases of the Nerve and Motor Unit
*   Chapter 47 - The Autonomic Motor System and the Hypothalamus
*   Chapter 49 - Homeostasis, Motivation, and Addictive States

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Sources:
- https://guides.utmb.edu/nhb/week1
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
- https://boardsbeyond.com/category/step-1/neurology
Captured on May 7, 2021
- https://www.utmb.edu/ar/ -> Search Library Resources
Captured on May 8, 2021
```

Commit message:

Specify target info in NHB W1 source list
For full clarity.

usmle/nhb/week1.md, after:

# Neuroscience and Human Behavior: Week 1

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: Neuroscience and Human Behavior](/usmle/nhb/course-information.html)

## Boards and Beyond - Suggested

List of Boards and Beyond Videos along with length

Boards and Beyond does not allow direct linking to specific videos. Links will go to the topic page where you can scroll to the video.

This Week: 52 minutes total

*   [Neurology - Step 1 - Boards and Beyond](https://boardsbeyond.com/category/step-1/neurology)
    
    *   Video
    

**Sub-Category: 01. Introduction to Neurology - 52 min**

*   Cells of the Nervous System - 15 min

    * First Aid 2018: 477
    * First Aid 2019: 481, 482
    * First Aid 2020: 493, 494, 495
    * First Aid 2021: 507, 508, 509

*   Nerve Damage - 12 min

    * First Aid 2018: 479
    * First Aid 2019: 483
    * First Aid 2020: 495
    * First Aid 2021: 510, 529, 547

*   Blood Brain Barrier - 4 min

    * First Aid 2018: 480
    * First Aid 2019: 484
    * First Aid 2020: 496
    * First Aid 2021: 511

*   Neurotransmitters - 11 min

    * First Aid 2018: 479
    * First Aid 2019: 483
    * First Aid 2020: 495
    * First Aid 2021: 510

*   Dermatomes and Reflexes - 12 min

    * First Aid 2018: 494
    * First Aid 2019: 498
    * First Aid 2020: 510
    * First Aid 2021: 527, 528

## Nolte's Human Brain, 8e

*   [Chapter 1 - Introduction to the Nervous System](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000011)
    
*   [Chapter 3 - Gross Anatomy and General Organization of the Central Nervous System](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000035)
    
*   [Chapter 7 - Electrical Signaling by Neurons](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000072)
    
*   [Chapter 8 - Synaptic Transmission Between Neurons](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000084)
    
*   [Chapter 10 - Spinal Cord](https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000102)
    
*   [Chapter 12 - Cranial Nerves and Their Nuclei](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://www.clinicalkey.com/#!/content/book/3-s2.0-B9780323653985000126)
    
    autonomic parts of CN 3, 7, 9, & 10
    

## Kandel & Schwartz Principles of Neural Science, 5e

_Note:_ _This book is only available in print - aka no electronic access._  
WL 102 P9547 2013, Reserve Core, 2nd floor Information Desk

*   Chapter 1 - The Brain and Behavior
*   Chapter 2 - Nerve Cells, Neural Circuitry, and Behavior
*   Chapter 5 -  Ion Channels
*   Chapter 6 - Membrane Potential and the Passive Electrical Properties of the Neuron
*   Chapter 7 - Propagated Signaling: The Action Potential
*   Chapter 8 - Overview of Synaptic Transmission
*   Chapter 9 - Signaling at the Nerve-Muscle Synapse: Directly Gated Transmission
*   Chapter 10 - Synaptic Integration of the Nervous System
*   Chapter 11 - Modulation of Synaptic Transmission: Second Messengers
*   Chapter 12 - Transmitter Release
*   Chapter 13 - Neurotransmitters
*   Chapter 14 - Diseases of the Nerve and Motor Unit
*   Chapter 47 - The Autonomic Motor System and the Hypothalamus
*   Chapter 49 - Homeostasis, Motivation, and Addictive States

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/nhb/week1
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021

First Aid references from:
https://boardsbeyond.com/category/step-1/neurology
Reviewed on May 7, 2021

Kandel & Schwartz edition from:
https://www.utmb.edu/ar/ -> Search Library Resources
Reviewed on May 8, 2021
```
