usmle/index.md, before:

# USMLE 1+2CK Prep for IMGs in 50 Weeks

## An Amalgam Schedule Made of U.S. Med Schools’ Syllabi

> In Development

**Pavel Zhelnov, MD**
<br>
[@drzhelnov](https://twitter.com/drzhelnov)

Dear Colleagues,

Many of us IMGs know how good UWorld is for USMLE prep. In fact, UWorld is a triumph of contemporary evidence-based education. That said, it is rather costly, so a cheaper alternative seems appealing.

My idea was to take existing curricula of various (preferably fewer and higher-rated) U.S. medical schools and devise a fixed-term self-learning schedule with a list of required readings for each week (in no particular order within weeks). So I have constructed the table below from both recent and outdated syllabi that I could find with Google in May 2021. **M1** through **M4** denote years one through four at a [typical U.S. medical school](https://lcme.org/publications/#Standards). _Longitudinal_ is a year-long course interspersed with the shorter courses.

Not all the curricular content was available for inclusion, but hopefully, this was well enough. Sorry for any links that might get broken with time. Consider replacing unavailable readings with similar ones at hand, like I, too, did. [View this page on GitHub](https://github.com/drzhelnov/drzhelnov.github.io/blob/master/usmle.md) to create a custom copy. Feedback is always welcome via [GitHub](https://github.com/pvzhelnov) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/drzhelnov). Enjoy!

-----

| Syllabus | U.S. Med School |
|---|---|
| **Week 1** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 1](/usmle/gar/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m2w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 1](/usmle/mct/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 3 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m3w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 1 Cellular Injury and Adaptation](/usmle/phd/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m4w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 1](/usmle/nhb/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 5 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m5w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 2** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 2](/usmle/gar/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m2w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 2](/usmle/mct/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 3 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m3w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 2 Immunology I](/usmle/phd/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m4w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 2](/usmle/nhb/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 5 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m5w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 3** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 3](/usmle/gar/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 3](/usmle/mct/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 3 Auto-immunity and Transplantation](/usmle/phd/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 3](/usmle/nhb/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 4** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 4](/usmle/gar/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Weeks 4-5](/usmle/pom1/m2w4-5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 4](/usmle/mct/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 4 Bacteriology](/usmle/phd/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 4](/usmle/nhb/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 5** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 5](/usmle/gar/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 5](/usmle/mct/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 5 Virology](/usmle/phd/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 5](/usmle/pom1/m4w5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 5](/usmle/nhb/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 6** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 6](/usmle/gar/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 6](/usmle/mct/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 6 Parasitology & Mycology](/usmle/phd/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 6](/usmle/pom1/m4w6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 6](/usmle/nhb/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 7** |  |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 7](/usmle/gar/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 7](/usmle/pom1/m2w7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 7](/usmle/mct/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 7 Neoplasia I](/usmle/phd/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 7](/usmle/nhb/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 8** |  |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 8](/usmle/gar/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 8 Neoplasia II](/usmle/phd/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 8](/usmle/nhb/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 9** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 1](/usmle/cvp/case1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 6](/usmle/pom2/m6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 10** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 2](/usmle/cvp/case2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 3](/usmle/cvp/case3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 11** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 4](/usmle/cvp/case4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 12** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 5](/usmle/cvp/case5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 13** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 6](/usmle/cvp/case6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 14** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 7](/usmle/cvp/case7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 15** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 8](/usmle/cvp/case8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 9](/usmle/cvp/case9.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 16** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 10](/usmle/cvp/case10.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 17** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 11](/usmle/cvp/case11.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 18** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 1](/usmle/rfe/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 7](/usmle/pom2/m7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 19** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 2](/usmle/rfe/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 20** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 3](/usmle/rfe/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 21** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 4](/usmle/rfe/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 22** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 5](/usmle/rfe/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 23** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 6](/usmle/rfe/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 24** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 7](/usmle/rfe/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 25** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 1](/usmle/gin/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 8](/usmle/pom2/m8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 26** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 2](/usmle/gin/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 27** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 3](/usmle/gin/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 28** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 4](/usmle/gin/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 29** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 5](/usmle/gin/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 30** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 6](/usmle/gin/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 31** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 7](/usmle/gin/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 32** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 1](/usmle/eer/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 9](/usmle/pom2/m9.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 33** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 2](/usmle/eer/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 34** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 3](/usmle/eer/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 35** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 4](/usmle/eer/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 36** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 5](/usmle/eer/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 37** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 6](/usmle/eer/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 38** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 1](/usmle/dhm/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 10](/usmle/pom2/m10.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 39** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 2](/usmle/dhm/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 40** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 3](/usmle/dhm/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 41** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 4](/usmle/dhm/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 42** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 5](/usmle/dhm/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |

Commit message:

Capture Ob/Gyn clerkship for USMLE prep

usmle/index.md, after:

# USMLE 1+2CK Prep for IMGs in 50 Weeks

## An Amalgam Schedule Made of U.S. Med Schools’ Syllabi

> In Development

**Pavel Zhelnov, MD**
<br>
[@drzhelnov](https://twitter.com/drzhelnov)

Dear Colleagues,

Many of us IMGs know how good UWorld is for USMLE prep. In fact, UWorld is a triumph of contemporary evidence-based education. That said, it is rather costly, so a cheaper alternative seems appealing.

My idea was to take existing curricula of various (preferably fewer and higher-rated) U.S. medical schools and devise a fixed-term self-learning schedule with a list of required readings for each week (in no particular order within weeks). So I have constructed the table below from both recent and outdated syllabi that I could find with Google in May 2021. **M1** through **M4** denote years one through four at a [typical U.S. medical school](https://lcme.org/publications/#Standards). _Longitudinal_ is a year-long course interspersed with the shorter courses.

Not all the curricular content was available for inclusion, but hopefully, this was well enough. Sorry for any links that might get broken with time. Consider replacing unavailable readings with similar ones at hand, like I, too, did. [View this page on GitHub](https://github.com/drzhelnov/drzhelnov.github.io/blob/master/usmle.md) to create a custom copy. Feedback is always welcome via [GitHub](https://github.com/pvzhelnov) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/drzhelnov). Enjoy!

-----

| Syllabus | U.S. Med School |
|---|---|
| **Week 1** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 1](/usmle/meta/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 1](/usmle/gar/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m2w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 1](/usmle/mct/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 3 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m3w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 1 Cellular Injury and Adaptation](/usmle/phd/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m4w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 1](/usmle/nhb/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 5 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m5w1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 2** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 2](/usmle/meta/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 2](/usmle/gar/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m2w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 2](/usmle/mct/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 3 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m3w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 2 Immunology I](/usmle/phd/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m4w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 2](/usmle/nhb/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 5 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m5w2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 3** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 3](/usmle/meta/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 3](/usmle/gar/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 3](/usmle/mct/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 3 Auto-immunity and Transplantation](/usmle/phd/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 3](/usmle/nhb/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 4** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 4](/usmle/meta/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 4](/usmle/gar/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Weeks 4-5](/usmle/pom1/m2w4-5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 4](/usmle/mct/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 4 Bacteriology](/usmle/phd/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 4](/usmle/nhb/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 5** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 5](/usmle/meta/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 5](/usmle/gar/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 5](/usmle/mct/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 5 Virology](/usmle/phd/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 5](/usmle/pom1/m4w5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 5](/usmle/nhb/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 6** |  |
| **M1** Module 1 [META: Mindfully Evolving, Thriving & Advocating - Week 6](/usmle/meta/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 6](/usmle/gar/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 6](/usmle/mct/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 6 Parasitology & Mycology](/usmle/phd/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 4 - Week 6](/usmle/pom1/m4w6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 6](/usmle/nhb/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 7** |  |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 7](/usmle/gar/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M1 Module 2 - Week 7](/usmle/pom1/m2w7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 3 [Molecules, Cells, and Tissues - Week 7](/usmle/mct/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 7 Neoplasia I](/usmle/phd/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 7](/usmle/nhb/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 8** |  |
| **M1** Module 2 [Gross Anatomy/Radiology - Week 8](/usmle/gar/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 4 [Pathobiology and Host Defense - Week 8 Neoplasia II](/usmle/phd/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M1** Module 5 [Neuroscience and Human Behavior - Week 8](/usmle/nhb/week8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Orientation Prior to Start of Clerkship](/usmle/obgyn/orientation.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 9** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 1](/usmle/cvp/case1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 6](/usmle/pom2/m6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 1](/usmle/obgyn/week1.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 10** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 2](/usmle/cvp/case2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 3](/usmle/cvp/case3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 2](/usmle/obgyn/week2.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 11** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 4](/usmle/cvp/case4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 3](/usmle/obgyn/week3.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 12** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 5](/usmle/cvp/case5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 4](/usmle/obgyn/week4.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 13** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 6](/usmle/cvp/case6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 5](/usmle/obgyn/week5.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 14** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 7](/usmle/cvp/case7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M3** [Obstetrics and Gynecology Clerkship - Week 6](/usmle/obgyn/week6.html) | Florida State University College of Medicine |
| **Week 15** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 8](/usmle/cvp/case8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 9](/usmle/cvp/case9.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 16** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 10](/usmle/cvp/case10.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 17** |  |
| **M2** Module 6 [Cardiovascular/Pulmonary - Case 11](/usmle/cvp/case11.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 18** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 1](/usmle/rfe/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 7](/usmle/pom2/m7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 19** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 2](/usmle/rfe/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 20** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 3](/usmle/rfe/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 21** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 4](/usmle/rfe/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 22** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 5](/usmle/rfe/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 23** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 6](/usmle/rfe/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 24** |  |
| **M2** Module 7 [Renal, Fluids, and Electrolytes - Week 7](/usmle/rfe/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 25** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 1](/usmle/gin/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 8](/usmle/pom2/m8.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 26** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 2](/usmle/gin/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 27** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 3](/usmle/gin/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 28** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 4](/usmle/gin/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 29** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 5](/usmle/gin/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 30** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 6](/usmle/gin/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 31** |  |
| **M2** Module 8 [Gastrointestinal/Nutrition - Week 7](/usmle/gin/week7.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 32** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 1](/usmle/eer/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 9](/usmle/pom2/m9.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 33** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 2](/usmle/eer/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 34** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 3](/usmle/eer/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 35** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 4](/usmle/eer/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 36** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 5](/usmle/eer/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 37** |  |
| **M2** Module 9 [Endocrinology and Reproduction - Week 6](/usmle/eer/week6.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 38** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 1](/usmle/dhm/week1.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| _Longitudinal_ [Practice of Medicine at M2 Module 10](/usmle/pom2/m10.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 39** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 2](/usmle/dhm/week2.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 40** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 3](/usmle/dhm/week3.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 41** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 4](/usmle/dhm/week4.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
| **Week 42** |  |
| **M2** Module 10 [Dermatology/ Hematology/ Musculoskeletal - Week 5](/usmle/dhm/week5.html) | University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston |
