# Practice of Medicine - Year 1: Module 3 - Week 2

[↶ Back to USMLE OASys](/usmle/)

[Course Information Year 1 Courses: Practice of Medicine](/usmle/pom1/course-information.html)

[Resources for Professional Identity Formation](/usmle/pom1/pif.html)

- **Practice of Medicine - Year 1**
  - [Module 2](/usmle/pom1/m2w1.html)
    - [Module 2 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m2w1.html)
    - [Module 2 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m2w2.html)
    - [Module 2 - Weeks 4-5](/usmle/pom1/m2w4-5.html)
    - [Module 2 - Week 7](/usmle/pom1/m2w7.html)
  - **Module 3**
    - [Module 3 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m3w1.html)
    - **Module 3 - Week 2**
  - [Module 4](/usmle/pom1/m4w1.html)
    - [Module 4 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m4w1.html)
    - [Module 4 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m4w2.html)
    - [Module 4 - Week 5](/usmle/pom1/m4w5.html)
    - [Module 4 - Week 6](/usmle/pom1/m4w6.html)
  - [Module 5](/usmle/pom1/m5w1.html)
    - [Module 5 - Week 1](/usmle/pom1/m5w1.html)
    - [Module 5 - Week 2](/usmle/pom1/m5w2.html) 

**⚠ This page was originally intended to be a copy of a university syllabus that was available for public download from the links listed at the bottom of this page. Although I had to make slight modifications for style while transferring the content to this website, I made every effort to not touch the content itself. The syllabic content is copyrighted by its authors.**

> My notes are formatted as blockquotes, like this one, licensed under [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode), and &copy; 2021 by Pavel Zhelnov, MD.

-----

## Small Group Activity

 **_PRIOR_ to Small Group**

*   [Health Literacy Online: A Guide for Simplifying the User Experience](http://libux.utmb.edu/login?url=https://health.gov/healthliteracyonline/)
    
    Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion
    

Definitions of health literacy-Please read through briefly and choose which one is the best one for you:

*   [Table 1.1 Definitions of Health Literacy IN: International Handbook of Health Literacy](https://library.oapen.org/viewer/web/viewer.html?file=/bitstream/handle/20.500.12657/24879/9781447344520_webpdf.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y#page=31&zoom=page-fit,-325,167)
    
    pages 7-9 - may need to scroll
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Okan O, Bauer U, Levin-Zamir D, Pinheiro P, Sorenssen K. International Handbook of Health Literacy: Research, practice and policy across the lifespan. Chicago, IL: Policy Press; 2019.
    

Read the introduction to this chapter on health literacy and health disparities.

*   [Ch 9 Health Literacy and Health Disparities: A Global Perspective IN: International Handbook of Health Literacy](https://library.oapen.org/viewer/web/viewer.html?file=/bitstream/handle/20.500.12657/24879/9781447344520_webpdf.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y#page=164&zoom=page-fit,-325,680)
    
    May need to use navigation on the left to get to chapter 9
    
    [more...](javascript:void(0);) [less...](javascript:void(0);)
    
    Okan O, Bauer U, Levin-Zamir D, Pinheiro P, Sorenssen K. International Handbook of Health Literacy: Research, practice and policy across the lifespan. Chicago, IL: Policy Press; 2019.
    

Review the PEMAT (Patient Educational Materials Tool) as it applies to the materials you are creating.

*   [The Patient Education Materials Assessment Tool (PEMAT) - AHRQ](https://www.ahrq.gov/ncepcr/tools/self-mgmt/pemat.html)

```
HTML to Markdown conversion with Turndown by Dom Christie
https://domchristie.github.io/turndown/

Source:
https://guides.utmb.edu/pom1/m3w2
Captured on May the Fourth, 2021
```
